# Pituitary-GH-3-Lactotroph
This repository contains a model for a Pituatary GH3 cell. [Wu and Chang 2005](https://senselab.med.yale.edu/ModelDB/ShowModel?model=62272&file=/GH3_Katp/readme.html#tabs-1)

Diethyl pyrocarbonate, a histidine-modifying agent, directly stimulates activity of ATP-sensitive potassium channels in pituitary GH3 cells.

Find abstract here 

**Summary**
The ATP-sensitive K(+) (K(ATP)) channels are composed of
sulfonylurea receptor and inwardly rectifying K(+) channel 
(Kir6.2) subunit. These channels are regulated by intracellular
ADP/ATP ratio and play a role in cellular metabolism. Diethyl 
pyrocarbonate (DEPC), a histidine-specific alkylating reagent, is
known to modify the histidine residues of the structure of 
proteins. The objective of this study was to determine whether 
DEPC modifies K(ATP)-channel activity in pituitary GH(3) cells. 
Steady-state fluctuation analyses of macroscopic K(+) current at 
-120mV produced power spectra that could be fitted with a single 
Lorentzian curve in these cells. The time constants in the 
presence of DEPC were increased. Consistent with fluctuation 
analyses, the mean open time of K(ATP)-channels was significantly
increased during exposure to DEPC. However, DEPC produced no
change in single-channel conductance, despite the ability of this
compound to enhance K(ATP)-channel activity in a concentration-
dependent manner with an EC(50) value of 16muM. DEPC-stimulated 
K(ATP)-channel activity was attenuated by pretreatment with 
glibenclamide. In current-clamp configuration, DEPC decreased the
firing of action potentials in GH(3) cells. A further application
of glibenclamide reversed DEPC- induced inhibition of spontaneous
action potentials. Intracellullar Ca(2+) measurements revealed 
the ability of DEPC to decrease Ca(2+) oscillations in GH(3) 
cells. Simulation studies also demonstrated that the increased 
conductance of K(ATP)-channels used to mimic DEPC actions reduced
the frequency of spontaneous action potentials and fluctuation of
intracellular Ca(2+). The results indicate that chemical 
modification with DEPC enhances K(ATP)-channel activity and 
influences functional activities of pituitary GH(3) cells.
